Attach - Add config property to set object orientation (#9623)
acemod/ACE3: docs/wiki/framework/attach-framework.md

---
layout: wiki
title: Attach Framework

> description: Explains how to add items to ACE's Attach system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Explains how to add items to the ACE Attach Framework.
```

```cpp
class CfgWeapons {
    class attach_item: CBA_MiscItem {
        ACE_attachable = "new_attachable_item_classname";
    };
};
```

The classname in ``ACE_attachable`` has to match a config value in ``CfgVehicle`` which to be able to spawn the physical item in the world. Example:
```cpp
class CfgVehicles {
    class ThingX;
	// The object that gets created and attached in ACE
    class new_attachable_item_classname: ThingX {
        scope = HIDDEN;
        displayName = "New ACE attachable item";
        model = QPATHTOF(data\model_file.p3d);
		vehicleClass = "";
    };
};
```

### 1.2 Define attach orientation for non-symmetric items
In the case the item needs to have a particular orientation when attached, add the config value: ``ACE_attachable_orientation`` which is an array describing the ``vectorDir`` orientation of the object.  
The default value is: ``[1,0,0]``. 

Example: 
```cpp
class CfgWeapons {
    class attach_item: CBA_MiscItem {
        ACE_attachable = "new_attachable_item_classname";
        ACE_attachable_orientation[] = {-1,0,0};
    };
};
```

## 2. Event Handlers

> ### 2.1 Attach Events   

Reviewer: Not looking good in preview. Self-reminder to check later.

Author: The view-file previewer on github doesn't seem to render tables well either. Check the ``events-framework.md`` with view-file and you see the same issue. But I haven't touched that file at all and current wiki shows it fine. 
![billede](https://github.com/acemod/ACE3/assets/7889925/094ced61-726b-4d4d-8382-4f657238bf57)

Reviewer: Worst case scenario, we fix it later.

Reviewer 2: `docker-compose up` in the `docs` folder and check. ;)

Author: Checked with docker, table looks fine! 
![billede](https://github.com/acemod/ACE3/assets/7889925/6f171c9a-bd8e-40dd-ba58-a9d8abb13f62)

|`ace_attach_detaching` | [_attachedObject, _itemName, _temporary] | Local | Listen | Just before an item gets detached/removed from a unit/vehicle. _temporary flag means its detached because the player unit entered a vehicle.

### 2.2 Init event for newly attached objects
If you wish to listen to the ``postInit`` event of the physical object that gets attached after its created and attached, use ``CBA_Extended_EventHandlers`` in the ``CfgVehicles`` config of your new item:
```cpp
class CBA_Extended_EventHandlers_base;
class CfgVehicles {
    class ThingX;
	// The object that gets created and attached in ACE
    class new_attachable_item_classname: ThingX {
        scope = HIDDEN;
        displayName = "New ACE attachable item";
        model = QPATHTOF(data\model_file.p3d);
		vehicleClass = "";
        
        class EventHandlers {
            class CBA_Extended_EventHandlers: CBA_Extended_EventHandlers_base {};
        };
    };
};
```
You can then register the listener in ``CfgEventHandlers``:
```cpp
class Extended_InitPost_Eventhandlers {
	class new_attachable_item_classname {

> 	 	init = QUOTE( _this call FUNC(initEvent));

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	 	init = QUOTE(_this call FUNC(initEvent));
```

---
layout: wiki
title: Attach Framework
description: Explains how to add items to ACE's Attach system.
group: framework
order: 0
parent: wiki
mod: ace
version:
  major: 3
  minor: 17
  patch: 0
---

## 1. Config Values
### 1.1 Make item attachable

> An item can be added to ACEs "Attach to Vehicle" and "Attach to Self" system by adding the following config value to the ``CfgWeapons`` or ``CfgMagazines`` configs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An item can be added to the ACE Attach framework by adding the ``ACE_attachable``` property to a class in ``CfgWeapons`` or ``CfgMagazines``. The value must be the classname of a valid class in ``CfgVehicles``:
```

> ```cpp
> class CfgWeapons {
>     class attach_item: CBA_MiscItem {
>         ACE_attachable = "new_attachable_item_classname";
>     };
> };
> ```
> 
> The classname in ``ACE_attachable`` has to match a config value in ``CfgVehicle`` which to be able to spawn the physical item in the world. Example:
> ```cpp
> class CfgVehicles {
>     class ThingX;
> 	// The object that gets created and attached in ACE
>     class new_attachable_item_classname: ThingX {
>         scope = HIDDEN;
>         displayName = "New ACE attachable item";
>         model = QPATHTOF(data\model_file.p3d);
> 		vehicleClass = "";
>     };
> };
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```cpp
class CfgWeapons {
    class attach_item: CBA_MiscItem {
        ACE_attachable = "new_attachable_item_classname";
    };
};

class CfgVehicles {
    class ThingX;
    class new_attachable_item_classname: ThingX {
        scope = 1; // Should be 1 (private) or 2 (public), scope 0 will cause errors on object creation
        displayName = "New ACE attachable item";
        model = "\path\to\my\model.p3d";
		vehicleClass = "";
    };
};
```
```

### 1.2 Define attach orientation for non-symmetric items
In the case the item needs to have a particular orientation when attached, add the config value: ``ace_attach_orientation`` which is an array describing the ``roll`` and ``yaw`` orientation of the object.  
The default value is: ``[0,0]``. 

Example: 
```cpp
class CfgWeapons {
    class attach_item: CBA_MiscItem {
        ACE_attachable = "new_attachable_item_classname";
        ace_attach_orientation[] = {0,180}; // 180deg yaw
    };
};
```

## 2. Event Handlers

> ### 2.1 Attach Events   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 2.1 Listenable Events   
```

> Attach system have certain events for attaching and detatching you can listen to:  
> 
> | Event Key | Parameters | Locality | Type | Description |
> |----------|---------|---------|---------|---------|---------|
> |`ace_attach_attached` | [_attachedObject, _itemClassname, _temporary] | Local | Listen | After an item was attached to a unit/vehicle. _temporary flag means a item is being re-attached after the player exits a vehicle
> |`ace_attach_detaching` | [_attachedObject, _itemName, _temporary] | Local | Listen | Just before an item gets detached/removed from a unit/vehicle. _temporary flag means its detached because the player unit entered a vehicle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Event Key | Parameters | Locality | Type | Description |
|----------|---------|---------|---------|---------|---------|
|`ace_attach_attached` | [_attachedObject, _itemClassname, _temporary] | Local | Listen | Called after an item is attached to an object. `_temporary` flag means the item is being re-attached (after a unit is exiting a vehicle, for example)
|`ace_attach_detaching` | [_attachedObject, _itemClassname, _temporary] | Local | Listen | Called just before an item is detached/removed from an object. `_temporary` flag means the item will be reattached later, see above.
```

> 
> ### 2.2 Init event for newly attached objects
> If you wish to listen to the ``postInit`` event of the physical object that gets attached after its created and attached, use ``CBA_Extended_EventHandlers`` in the ``CfgVehicles`` config of your new item:
> ```cpp
> class CBA_Extended_EventHandlers_base;
> class CfgVehicles {
>     class ThingX;
> 	// The object that gets created and attached in ACE
>     class new_attachable_item_classname: ThingX {
>         scope = HIDDEN;
>         displayName = "New ACE attachable item";
>         model = QPATHTOF(data\model_file.p3d);
> 		vehicleClass = "";
>         
>         class EventHandlers {
>             class CBA_Extended_EventHandlers: CBA_Extended_EventHandlers_base {};
>         };
>     };
> };
> ```
> You can then register the listener in ``CfgEventHandlers``:
> ```cpp
> class Extended_InitPost_Eventhandlers {
> 	class new_attachable_item_classname {
> 	 	init = QUOTE(_this call FUNC(initEvent));
> 	};
> };
> ```
> 
> Make sure that the classname you are listening to is the one defined in ``CfgVehicles`` as this is the physical item that gets created when attached.   
> 
> **NOTE:** If attaching the object to yourself, as a player, then the init event will be rerun everytime you leave a vehicle, as ACE Attach system will remove and re-add player attached items whenever they enter and leave vehicles.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This is unecessary.

Alternatively,
```suggestion

### 2.2 Init event for newly attached objects
Use [CBA Extended Event Handlers](https://github.com/CBATeam/CBA_A3/wiki/Extended-Event-Handlers-(new))
```
